Course Introduction
Are you struggling to navigate the complexities of your workplace environment? Our Workplace Essential Skills (WES) program is here to help! Specifically designed for apprentices, this comprehensive training initiative equips you with the fundamental abilities crucial for employment, education, and overall life functionality.

 

Our WES program prepares you to excel as an efficient employee, enabling you to meet your daily professional obligations with confidence. While not endorsed or duplicated by the QCTO, our program spans all sectors and levels of complexity, ensuring that you gain versatile skills that are the building blocks for acquiring additional competencies.

 

Adapt to contemporary work practices and embrace changes within your workplace with ease. Our essential skills are indispensable for continual learning and task fulfilment in any environment. Universally applicable across various industries, the WES program covers tasks of varying complexity levels, making you a versatile and valuable asset to any organization.

 

Join our Workplace Essential Skills program today and take the first step towards a more confident, competent, and adaptable you!

Course Duration
25 Days (5 – 7 Days In-Class, 18 Days Practical and Assessments)

Entry Requirements
Grade 9/ Level 1

Assessments
Practical Test

Written Test

Supervised Assessment

In addition to successfully completing the Programmes listed above, a Final Integrated Summative Assessment (FISA) is required for the Qualification. All learners gain entrance to the Final Integrated Supervised Assessment by successfully completing all formal summative assessments conducted by the SDP.

Who should attend?
This Workplace Essential Skills program targets both employed and unemployed South Africans, including those in low-skilled occupations, who aim to enhance their skill sets and opportunities.


Knowledge component 
●	TOPIC 1 - The workplace environment and responsibilities of an employer and employee NQF Level 4, Credits 8
●	TOPIC 2 - Employment
●	TOPIC 3 - The organisation of work 
●	TOPIC 4 - Concepts related to the employee's performance of work
●	TOPIC 5 - Employer organisations
●	TOPIC 6 - External environments in which organisations operate
●	TOPIC 7 - Employer-Employee relationships
●	TOPIC 8 - Workplace health and safety
●	TOPIC 9 - Understand and apply work ethics, norms and values
●	TOPIC 10 - Ethics at work
●	TOPIC 11 - Communication
●	TOPIC 12 - Current trends influencing work

Application component 
●	TOPIC 1 - The workplace environment and responsibilities of an employer and employee
●	TOPIC 2 - Apply for a career opportunity
●	TOPIC 3 - Prepare and undertake an interview
●	TOPIC 4 - Analyse an employment contract
●	TOPIC 5 - Analyse a workplace policy and guideline
●	TOPIC 6 - The workplace environment and responsibilities of an employer and employee
●	TOPIC 7 - Apply and accept a internship at a Workplace Experience provider.
●	TOPIC 8 - Demonstrate understanding of Occupational Health and Safety legislation in the workplace
●	TOPIC 9 - Induction at a Workplace Experience provider, covering general workplace policies, procedures and standards
●	TOPIC 10 - Observe and undertake general task/s within Workplace Experience provider workplace 
●	TOPIC 11 - Understand and apply work ethics, norms and values
●	TOPIC 12 - Work as a team member 
●	TOPIC 13 - Participate in and contribute to workplace meetings
●	TOPIC 14 - Contribute to maintaining a safe and productive Work Environment


