QUALIFICATION DETAILS
=====================

Qualification Name: N Certificate: Business Analysis
SETA: MICT
NQF Level: 6
Minimum Credits: 149
Qualification NLRD ID: 63909
Learning Programme NLRD ID: N/A
Expiry Date: 30-Jun-26
Status: Legacy extended
Reference Sheet: SpecCon MICT Seta

MODULES AND UNITS
=================
PURPOSE AND RATIONALE OF THE QUALIFICATION 
Purpose:

Business analysis is a vital instrument within the business environment to ensure that information technology is able to provide effective solutions for business enterprises. The development of business analysts through a suite of qualifications will have a positive impact on the broader economy of South Africa. It will also assist with bringing South Africa inline with international trends and satisfy industry requirements.

The qualifying learner will be able to:
Analyse a business scenario.
Develop a business case.
Compile user requirement specifications.
Develop functional specifications.
Monitor quality assurance activities throughout the life cycle of the project.

Rationale:

A business analyst works as a liaison amongst stakeholders in order to elicit, analyse, communicate and validate requirements for changes to business processes, policies and information systems. The business analyst understands business problems and opportunities in the context of the requirements and recommends solutions that enable the organisation to achieve its goals. Traditionally business analysts were drawn from senior information technology (IT) and business people, whereas this qualification provides lower level access for the development of such competencies. It has also been developed to enable learners to access higher education and provide flexible access to life-long learning.

This qualification provides opportunities for people to engage in further learning towards a specialisation in business analysis or achieve competencies that are portable to other specialisations such as systems development or systems support. This will therefore enable business analysis competencies to be strengthened, and enable individuals who are currently working in a business systems environment, to better contribute to the implementation of solutions that support the business requirements. The competencies of business analysis have been identified as a target development area for the ICT sector and the South African government. The demand for this qualification is evidenced by these National initiatives as well as international demands and trends. It is intended to empower learners to acquire knowledge, skills, attitudes and values required to operate confidently as individuals in the South African community and to respond to the challenges of the economic environment and changing world of work. Ultimately, this qualification is aimed at improving the productivity and efficiency of business analysts within all sectors in South Africa. 

LEARNING ASSUMED TO BE IN PLACE AND RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING 
Communication at NQF Level 5.
Computer Literacy at NQF Level 5.
Knowledge of Business analysis.

Recognition of Prior Learning:

The Qualification may be obtained in whole or in part through the process of Recognition of Prior Learning. Learners who may meet the requirements of any Unit Standard in this Qualification may apply for recognition of prior learning to the Relevant ETQA, and will be assessed against the assessment criteria of the exit level outcomes of this qualification and specific outcomes for the relevant Unit Standard/s.

Anyone wishing to be assessed against this Qualification may apply to be assessed by any assessment agency, assessor or provider institution, which is accredited by the relevant ETQA.

Access to the Qualification:

Open. 

RECOGNISE PREVIOUS LEARNING? 
Y 

QUALIFICATION RULES 
All fundamental unit standards to the value of 49 credits must be completed.

All core unit standards to the value of 80 credits must be completed.

Learners must complete additional unit standards from the elective category to the value of at least 20 credits to achieve the full credit value of 149 for this qualification. 

EXIT LEVEL OUTCOMES 
On completion of this Qualification learners are able to:

1. Analyse a business scenario.

2. Develop a business case.

3. Compile user requirement specifications.

4. Develop functional specifications.

5. Monitor quality assurance activities throughout the life cycle of the project.

Critical Cross-Field Outcomes:

This qualification promotes, in particular, the following critical cross-field outcomes:

Identifying and solving problems in which responses display that responsible decisions using critical and creative thinking have been made when:
Gathering information for the production of requirements documents and specifying requirements for new business solutions.

Working effectively with others as a member of a team, group, organisation, and community during:
Working as a member of a multi-disciplinary project team when developing and implementing specifications to achieve the desired product or service.

Organising and managing oneself and one's activities responsibly and effectively when:
Applying information gathering techniques for business system development.

Communicate effectively using visual, mathematical and/or language in the modes of oral and/or written persuasion when:
Analysing, interpreting and communicating requirements information through presentations, documents and workshops.

Participating as responsible citizens in the life of local, national and global communities by:
Demonstrating an awareness of ethics and professionalism.

Collecting, analysing, organising and critically evaluating information when:
Gathering information to assist with the production of requirements specification.

Using science and technology effectively and critically, showing responsibility towards the environment and health of others when:
Setting up and perform testing and acceptance procedures.
Using business system applications and the use of technology to produce documentation and communicate with stakeholders.

Demonstrating an understanding of the world as a set of related systems by recognising that problem-solving contexts do not exist in isolation when:
Identifying and interpreting related legislation and its impact on the team, department or division and ensure compliance.
Impact of industry best practice on business systems environments. 

ASSOCIATED ASSESSMENT CRITERIA 
On completion of this Qualification learners are able to:

Associated Assessment Criteria for Exit Level Outcome 1:

1.1 The boundaries and scope of the business are modelled in order to communicate the functioning of a business.
1.2 The business environment is interpreted to reflect the impact of the context and constraints.
1.3 The business facets are identified and specified within different types and contexts of a business.
Range: Business facets include but are not limited to different types of businesses, ways of operation, structures, type of industry, value chain, generic business processes, regulatory requirements.
1.4 The possibilities for improvement in the organisation are examined to reflect their impact on a business scenario.

Associated Assessment Criteria for Exit Level Outcome 2:

2.1 The business situation is interpreted in order to determine the opportunities and problems of an existing business.
2.2 Solutions are projected for business problems and goals in order to improve the business in accordance with the cost benefit analysis.
2.3 A cost benefit analysis is generated to determine the cost of specific benefits identified as a potential solution.
2.4 A risk analysis is conducted to identify elements that may have a negative impact on the implementation of the proposed solutions.
Range: Elements include but are not limited to people, financial, political, and environmental.
2.5 A business case is produced integrating the business scenario, solutions, costs and risks.

Associated Assessment Criteria for Exit Level Outcome 3:

3.1 The principles of needs analysis are applied to identify the requirements of the business.
3.2 The requirement specification tools are applied in order to document the components of the user requirements specification.
Range: Tools include but are not limited to principles, techniques, notation standards and methodologies.
3.3 Logical models of the business are generated to facilitate agreement regarding the business requirements.
Range: Entity relationship, organization structure, process, object, and domain.
3.4 A user requirement specifications is produced in accordance with the business problem.

Associated Assessment Criteria for Exit Level Outcome 4:

4.1 The business processes are analysed in order to identify changes and improvements to the business operation.
4.2 Functional models are generated to represent the proposed operation of the business.
4.3 Functional specifications are produced in accordance with business requirements.
4.4 The tools are applied in order to document the components of the functional specification.
Range: Tools include but are not limited to principles, techniques, notation standards and methodologies.
4.5 The capacity of current technology is analysed to make recommendations regarding solutions.

Associated Assessment Criteria for Exit Level Outcome 5:

5.1 Test requirements are discussed in accordance with the functionality of the proposed solution.
5.2 Test reports are analysed to ensure that functionality is achieved.
5.3 Performance of the quality management process is assessed to ensure compliance with the project life cycle.
5.4 The change management proposals are monitored in terms of the project implementation process.
5.5 Assessment activities are performed for continuous improvement of project processes.

Integrated Assessment:

Formative assessments conducted during the learning process will consist of written assessments, simulation in a practical environment and a number of self-assessments.

Summative assessment consists of written assessments, assignments and simulation in a practical environment, integrating the assessment of all unit standards and embedded knowledge. Summative assessments is only conducted once the learner has demonstrated proficiency during formative assessment.

In particular assessors should check that the learner is able to demonstrate the ability to consider a range of options and make decisions about:
The quality of the observed practical performance as well as the theory and embedded knowledge behind it.
The different methods that can be used by the learner to display thinking and decision making in the demonstration of practical performance.
Reflexive competencies.
The fundamental competencies included in this qualification need to be assessed in an integrated way with the rest of the competencies. 